---
id: configFormat
title: Config format
sidebar_label: Config format
---

Config files are used when working with the GUI. They should cover most of the API of the C# library. They sometimes even support features that are not directly possible with the API.

> Examples of most of these options can be seen at the [Complex setup](complexMapDescription.md) documentation.

### Sections
<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

### Misc
- [roomShapesModel](#roomShapesModel)
- [Separate files for room shapes sets](#separate-files-for-room-shapes-sets)


# Reference

## Sections
Bellow you can find a list of all sections that can be used in config files. The order of sections is not important.

### `roomsRange` (required)
```yaml
roomsRange:
  from: # int, required
  to: # int, required
```

This section describe what rooms should be added to the map description. _to_ must be greater than _from_ - that mean that there must always be at least one room in the map description.

For example:
```yaml
roomsRange:
  from: 1      
  to: 10
```

---

### `passages` (required)
```yaml
passages:
  - # [int, int]   
```
This section describes passages between pairs of rooms. Map description represents an undirected graph so both `[x, y]` and `[y, x]` represent the same passage. Every passage can be added at most once.

Rooms together with passages must form a **connected graph**. That means that there must be a path between every pair of rooms.

For example:
```yaml
passages:
  - [1, 2]
  - [2, 5] 
```

**Note**: Passages are described as _yaml_ arrays suggesting that there could be more than two elements. But the parser expects every such array to contain **exactly** two elements and will throw an exception otherwise.

---

### `rooms` (optional)
```yaml
rooms:
  [room number]:
    roomShapes: # roomShapesModel, optional - see below
```

This section describe properties of individual rooms. It overrides default settings.

For example:
```yaml
rooms:
  8:
    roomShapes:
      -
        setName: bossRooms
        roomDescriptionName: bossRoom1
        scale: [2,2]
```

**Note:** This section is **required** if defaults are not set.

**Typical usage:**
When all but one room should have common settings. Settings of that one special room can then be overriden in this section. See the [different shapes for some rooms](differentShapesMapDescription.md) documentation.

---

### `defaultRoomShapes` (optional)
```yaml
defaultRoomShapes:
  - # roomShapesModel - see below
```

This section describes default room shapes to be used by all rooms. Values from this section are used only when they are not overriden in the _rooms_ section.

For example:
```yaml
defaultRoomShapes:
  -
    setName: rectangles
    roomDescriptionName: square
    rotate: false
  -
    setName: otherShapes
```

**Note:** This section is **required** to be non empty if not all rooms have their room shapes described in the _rooms_ section.

**Typical usage:**
When there are many rooms that should use the same room shapes. Special rooms can then override defaults in the _rooms_ section.

## Misc

### roomShapesModel
```yaml
setName: # string, optional
roomDescriptionName: # string, optional
rotate: # bool, optional
probability: # double, optional
normalizeProbabilities: # bool, optional
scale: # [positive int, positive int], optional
```

```yaml
setName: basicSet
roomDescriptionName: square
rotate: false
probability: 1.2
normalizeProbabilities: true
scale: [2,2]
```

- **setName**: Name of the set when having a room shapes set in a different file. Defaults to _defaultRoomShapes_.
- **roomDescriptionName**: Name of the room description to be used. Defaults to all files.
- **rotate**: Whether room shapes should be rotated. Defaults to _true_.
- **probability**: Probability of choosing the room shape when randomly perturbing shapes. Defaults to _1_.
- **normalizeProbabilities**: Whether probabilities should be normalized when rotating shapes. That means that if a room shape has _4_ different rotations the probability of each such rotation will be equal to _probability / 4_. Defaults to _true_.
- **scale**: Whether room shapes should be scaled. Defaults to _[1,1]_.

---

### Separate files for room shapes sets